# Java Concepts 
## 1) What is JVM?
- **JVM** stands for **Java Virtual Machine**.
- It is an abstract computing machine that enables a computer to run Java programs.
- **JVM** performs all the tasks necessary for running Java applications, including loading and verifying code.
- It also handles **Garbage Collection** and provides a runtime environment.

### Key Parts of JVM
1. **Class Loader**
2. **Memory Area**
3. **Execution Engine**
4. **Garbage Collection**

## 2) What is JRE?
- **JRE** stands for **Java Runtime Environment**.
- It is the implementation of JVM, specifically designed to provide an executable environment for Java programs.
- It does not contain development tools like **compiler** or **debugger**.
- To execute a Java program, you need **JRE** but not **JDK**. However, to develop Java applications, you need **JDK**.

## 3) Features of Java
#### Simple
- Easy to learn, clean, and understand.

#### Object Oriented
- Java is an **Object-Oriented Programming Language**.

#### Platform Independent
- Java is platform-independent; bytecode can be executed on any platform.

#### Secure
- Java does not provide explicit pointers, and programs run in their own environment, making it secure.

#### Robust
- Strong memory management, lack of pointers, automatic garbage collection, exception handling, and type checking make Java a robust programming language.

#### Architectural Neutral
- The architecture is independent of implementation, e.g., the size of data types is fixed.

#### High Performance
- Java is faster than many interpreted programming languages.

#### Distributed
- Java Fasilates user to create Distributed Application

#### Multy Theading
- This feature allows concurrent exicution of **Two** or **More** parts of program and maximum utilization of `CPU`

## 4) Object Class relation in JAVA 
- Class and Object are `dependant` of each other
- where is **Object** is real `world entity` and **class** is a `blueprint from a Object`

## 5) Object Class In JAVA ?
- Object class is `root` class in a Java
- Every class either `system defined` or `user defined` is descendant of it
- Object class provides set of methods available for the all Objects
- this method `overridden` as per the needs
- ### toString()
  - it is used to provide String representation of an Object
  - equals it is used to compare the contain or `state` of Two Objects
- ### hashCode()
    - This method provide unique integer value for every object created
    - code is generated by `hashing` mechanism

## Difference  between  `final`,`finaly`, and  `finalize`
- ### 
